{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Futura-Medium;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The term \'93mixed methods\'94 refers to an emergent methodology of research that advances the systematic integration, or \'93mixing,\'94 of quantitative and qualitative data within a single investigation or sustained program of inquiry. The basic premise of this methodology is that such integration permits a more complete and synergistic utilization of data than do separate quantitative and qualitative data collection and analysis. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Mixed methods research originated in the social sciences and has recently expanded into the health and medical sciences including fields such as nursing, family medicine, social work, mental health, pharmacy, allied health, and others. In the last decade, its procedures have been developed and refined to suit a wide variety of research questions (Creswell and Plano Clark, 2011). These procedures include advancing rigor, offering alternative mixed methods designs, specifying a shorthand notation system for describing the designs to increase communication across fields, visualizing procedures through diagrams, noting research questions that can particularly benefit from integration, and developing rationales for conducting various forms of mixed methods studies. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 The core characteristics of a well-designed mixed methods study in PCMH research include the following: 
\fs24 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa293\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Collecting and analyzing both quantitative (closed-ended) and qualitative (open-ended) data. \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Using rigorous procedures in collecting and analyzing data appropriate to each method\'92s tradition, such as ensuring the appropriate sample size for quantitative and qualitative analysis. \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Integrating the data during data collection, analysis, or discussion. \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Using procedures that implement qualitative and quantitative components either concurrently or sequentially, with the same sample or with different samples. \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	5.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Framing the procedures within philosophical/theoretical models of research, such as within a social constructionist model that seeks to understand multiple perspectives on a single issue\'97for example, what patients, caregivers, clinicians, and practice staff would characterize as \'93high- quality treatment\'94 in a PCMH. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Mixed methods can be an ideal technique to assess complex interventions such as PCMHs (Homer, Klatka, Romm, et al., 2008; Nutting, Miller, Crabtree, et al., 2009). PCMH evaluators can choose from five primary mixed methods designs depending on the research questions they want to answer and resources available for the evaluation. 
\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Validate findings using quantitative and qualitative data sources. 
\f0\b0 Evaluators can use a 
\f2\i convergent design 
\f0\i0 to compare findings from qualitative and quantitative data sources. It involves collecting both types of data at roughly the same time; assessing information using parallel constructs for both types\uc0\u8232 of data; separately analyzing both types of data; and comparing results through procedures such as a side-by-side comparison in a discussion, transforming the qualitative data set into quantitative scores, or jointly displaying both forms of data. For example, the investigator can gather qualitative data to assess the personal experiences of patients while also gathering data from survey instruments measuring the quality of care. The two types of data can provide validation for each other and also create a solid foundation for drawing conclusions about the intervention. 
\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Use qualitative data to explore quantitative findings. 
\f0\b0 This 
\f2\i explanatory sequential design 
\f0\i0 typically involves two phases: (1) an initial quantitative instrument phase, followed by (2) a qualitative data collection phase, in which the qualitative phase builds directly on the results from the quantitative phase. In this way, the quantitative results are explained in more detail through the qualitative data. For example, findings from instrument data about costs can be explored further with qualitative focus groups to better understand how the personal experiences of individuals match up to the instrument results. This kind of study illustrates the use of mixed methods to explain qualitatively how the quantitative mechanisms might work. 
\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Develop survey instruments. 
\f0\b0 Yet another mixed methods study design could support the development of appropriate quantitative instruments that provide accurate measures within a PCMH context. This 
\f2\i exploratory sequential design 
\f0\i0 involves first collecting qualitative exploratory data, analyzing the information, and using the findings to develop a psychometric instrument well adapted to the sample under study. This instrument is then, in turn, administered to a sample of a population. For example, a PCMH study could begin with a qualitative exploration through interviews with primary care providers to assess what constructs should be measured to best understand improved quality\uc0\u8232 of care. From this exploration, an instrument could be developed using rigorous scale development procedures (DeVellis, 1991) that is then tested with a sample. In this way, researchers can use a mixed methods approach to develop and test a psychometric instrument that improves on existing measures. 
\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Use qualitative data to augment a quantitative outcomes study. 
\f0\b0 An outcomes study, for example a randomized, controlled trial, with qualitative data collection and analysis added, is called an 
\f2\i embedded design
\f0\i0 . Within this type of an outcomes study, the researcher collects and analyzes both quantitative and qualitative data. The qualitative data can be incorporated into the study at the outset (for example, to help design the intervention); during the intervention (for example, to explore how participants experience the PCMH model); and after the intervention (for example, to help explain the results). 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 In this way, the qualitative data augment the outcomes study, which is a popular approach within implementation and dissemination research (Palinkas, Aarons, Horwitz, et al., 2011). 
\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Involve community-based stakeholders. 
\f0\b0 A community-based participatory approach is an example of a 
\f2\i multiphase design
\f0\i0 . This advanced mixed methods approach involves community participants in many quantitative and qualitative phases of research to bring about change (Mertens, 2009). The multiple phases all address a common objective of assessing and refining PCMH models. This design would involve primary care providers and staff, patients, and other providers and individuals in 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 the community in the research process. Key stakeholders participate as co-researchers in a project, providing input about their needs, ways to address them, and ways to implement changes. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 These five research designs apply mixed methods approaches to evaluations of PCMH models. The literature details their procedures, illustrates the flow of activities through the use of shorthand notation, and reflects on strengths and limitations. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf2 III. Advantages 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Using a mixed methods study has several advantages, which we discuss below. 
\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Compares quantitative and qualitative data. 
\f0\b0 Mixed methods are especially useful in understanding contradictions between quantitative results and qualitative findings. 
\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Reflects participants\'92 point of view. 
\f0\b0 Mixed methods give a voice to study participants and ensure that study findings are grounded in participants\'92 experiences. 
\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Fosters scholarly interaction. 
\f0\b0 Such studies add breadth to multidisciplinary team research by encouraging the interaction of quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods scholars. 
\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Provides methodological flexibility. 
\f0\b0 Mixed methods have great flexibility and are adaptable to many study designs, such as observational studies and randomized trials, to elucidate more information than can be obtained in only quantitative research. 
\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Collects rich, comprehensive data. 
\f0\b0 Mixed methods also mirror the way individuals naturally collect information\'97by integrating quantitative and qualitative data. For example, sports stories frequently integrate quantitative data (scores or number of errors) with qualitative data (descriptions and images of highlights) to provide a more complete story than either method would alone. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf2 IV. Limitations 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Mixed methods studies are challenging to implement, especially when they are used to evaluate complex interventions such as a PCMH model. Below we discuss several challenges. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs32 \cf3 \strokec3 3 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Increases the complexity of evaluations. 
\f0\b0 Mixed methods studies are complex to plan and conduct. They require careful planning to describe all aspects of research, including the study sample for qualitative and quantitative portions (identical, embedded, or parallel); timing (the sequence of qualitative and quantitative portions); and the plan for integrating data. Integrating qualitative and quantitative data during analysis is often a challenging phase for many researchers. 
\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Relies on a multidisciplinary team of researchers. 
\f0\b0 Conducting high-quality mixed methods\uc0\u8232 studies requires a multidisciplinary team of researchers who, in the service of the larger study, must be open to methods that may not be their area of expertise. Finding qualitative experts who are also comfortable discussing quantitative analyses and vice versa can be challenging in many environments. Given that each method must adhere to its own standards for rigor, ensuring appropriate quality of each component of a mixed methods study can be difficult (Wisdom, Cavaleri, Onwuegbuzie, et\u8232 al., 2011). For example, quantitative analyses require much larger sample sizes to obtain statistical significance than do qualitative analyses, which require meeting goals of saturation (not uncovering new information from conducting more interviews) and relevance. Embedded samples, in which\u8232 a qualitative subsample is embedded within a larger quantitative sample, can be useful in cases of inadequate statistical power. 
\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Requires increased resources. 
\f0\b0 Finally, mixed methods studies are labor intensive and require greater resources and time than those needed to conduct a single method study. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf2 V. Conclusion 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 The integration of quantitative and qualitative data in the form of a mixed methods study has great potential to strengthen the rigor and enrich the analysis and findings of any PCMH evaluation.\uc0\u8232 By carefully selecting the mixed method design that best suits the evaluation\'92s questions and meets its resource constraints, evaluators can facilitate deeper, more meaningful learning regarding the effectiveness and implementation of PCMH models. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf2 VI. References 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Creswell JW, Fetters MD, Ivankova NY. Designing a mixed methods study in primary care. Ann Fam Med 2004;2(1):7\'9612. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Creswell JW, Plano Clark VL. Designing and conducting mixed methods research. 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage; 2011. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 DeVellis RF. Scale development: Theory and application. Newbury Park, CA: Sage; 1991. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Homer CJ, Klatka K, Romm D, et al. A review of the evidence for the medical home for children with special health care needs. Pediatrics 2008;122:e922\'96e937. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Mertens DM. Transformative research and evaluation. New York: Guilford; 2009. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Nutting PA, Miller WL, Crabtree BF, et al. Initial lessons from the first national demonstration project on practice transformation to a patient-centered medical home. Ann Fam Med 2009;7(3):254\'9660. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs32 \cf3 \strokec3 4 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Palinkas LA, Aarons GA, Horwitz S, et al. Mixed methods designs in implementation research. Adm Policy Ment Health 2011;38(1):44\'9653. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Peikes D, Zutshi A, Genevro J, et al. Early Evidence on the Patient-Centered Medical Home, Final Report (Prepared by Mathematica Policy Research, under Contract Nos. HHSA290200900019I/ HHSA29032002T and HHSA290200900019I/HHSA29032005T). Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. AHRQ Publication No. 12-0020-EF. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Wisdom JP, Cavaleri MC, Onwuegbuzie AT, et al. Methodological reporting in qualitative, quantitative, and mixed methods health services research articles. Health Serv Res 2011:47(2):721\'9645. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf2 VII. Resources 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\sa293\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \
}